# face file

**Creation**::  Wednesday 01 of June, 2022.  12:26 PM
**date**:: 22-06-01
**UID**:: 220601120665
**Tags**:: [[22-05-31-0011. TetGen]] [[Triangle - Shewchuk]]


Archivos de caras de una malla, se usa para representar una [[Tetrahedralization]] en Tetgen o una [[22-06-06-1806. Triangulation]] en [[Triangle - Shewchuk]].

## [[22-05-31-0011. TetGen]]

En el caso de tetgen el formato es el siguiente


```
A .face file contains a list of triangular faces of the tetrahedralization.
First line: <# of faces> <boundary marker (0 or 1)>
Remaining lines list # of faces:
<face #> <node> <node> <node> ... [boundary marker] ... ...
```

Si se se usa el comando -f imprime las caras interiores [[22-05-31-0011. TetGen#Imprimir aristas y caras interiores]]

Si se usa el comando -nn muestra las caras interiores, después del boundary marker, un ejemplo de -nnf es:

Después del bpundary marker, tiene los ind de los tetrahedrons vecinos

```
1096  1
    0      0    85    67  0        0    244
    1      0    72    85  0        0    245
    2     67    72     0  0        0    251
    3     67    85    72  0        0     60
    4     51    61    97  0        1    120
    ...
```




# References
[[Tetgen manual 2020]]

> TetGen default only outputs the boundary faces or the convex hull faces into a .face file. If the -f switch is used, TetGen outputs all faces (including interior faces) of the tetrahedralization. In this case, each interior face will always have a ‘0’ as its boundary marker. This file can be omitted by using the -F switch.

> The -f switch outputs all triangular faces (including interior faces) of the mesh into a .face file. 
> Without -f, only the boundary faces or the convex hull faces are output. In the .face file, interior faces and boundary (or convex hull) faces are distinguished by their boundary markers. Each interior face has a boundary marker ‘0’. A non-zero boundary marker means a boundary or convex hull face.


>If the -nn switch is used, each face contains two additional indices (after the boundary marker) in the corresponding .ele file. They are indices of the tetrahedra containing this face. A −1 indicates that there is no adjacent tetrahedron at this side, i.e., it is “outer space”.